Relative path redo WIP (#3190)
plone/volto: docs/source/deploying/prefixed-root.md

---
html_meta:
  "description": ""
  "property=og:description": ""
  "property=og:title": ""

>   "keywords": ""

Reviewer: Please fill in values for each key.

---

# Prefixed (non-root) deployment

> If you're integrating a Volto website with another, existing website, you may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're integrating a Volto website with another existing website, you may
```

> need to have Volto running on an "folder" inside that website, rather than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need to run Volto on a "folder" inside that website, rather than
```

> having Volto serve directly the root folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto directly serving the root folder.
```

> The first step is to set an environment variable, `RAZZLE_PREFIX_PATH` to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to set an environment variable `RAZZLE_PREFIX_PATH` to the
```

path "prefixed path" of your Volto. For example, if I want Volto's root to be

> hosted at **example.com/my-prefix**, you need to start Volto with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hosted at `example.com/my-prefix`, you need to start Volto with the following.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

RAZZLE_PREFIX_PATH=my-prefix yarn start
```

If you need to debug and understand how the requests are rewritten by the Volto
SSR, you can add the following environment variables to the Volto start line:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

DEBUG_HPM=true DEBUG=superagent RAZZLE_PREFIX_PATH=my-prefix yarn start
```

> Notice the absence of a slash in the prefix name. Correct: `my-prefix`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the absence of a leading slash in the prefix name. Correct: `my-prefix`,
```

incorrect: `/my-prefix`.

> The prefix location will be used regardless of how you start Volto, in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The prefix location will be used regardless of how you start Volto, whether in
```

development or production mode. When developing, though, if your backend is
something other then `http://localhost:8080`, you'll need to provide your own

> solution on how to handle things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
solution for how to handle things.
```

> For production setup, when hosting Volto behind a proxy HTTP server, you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a production setup, when hosting Volto behind a proxy HTTP server, you can
```

> configure your rewrite rules to something like this (in this case, for Apache):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configure your rewrite rules to something like the following (in this case, for Apache).
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```apache
```

RewriteRule ^/my-prefix/\+\+api\+\+/(.*) \
  http://plone:8080/VirtualHostBase/http/example.com:80/Plone/VirtualHostRoot/_vh_my-prefix/$$1 [P,L]
RewriteRule ^/my-prefix(.*) http://volto:3000/my-prefix$$1 [P,L]
```

> In case you have a deeper prefix path (for ex, `level1/level2`), you can do like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you have a deeper prefix path (for example, `level1/level2`), you can do the following.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```apache
```

RewriteRule ^/level1/level2/\+\+api\+\+/(.*) \
  http://plone:8080/VirtualHostBase/http/example.com:80/Plone/VirtualHostRoot/_vh_level1/_vh_level2/$$1 [P,L]
RewriteRule ^/level1/level2(.*) http://volto:3000/level1/level2$$1 [P,L]
```

> And start Volto with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And start Volto with the following.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

  "keywords": "Volto, deployment"
---

# Prefixed (non-root) deployment

If you're integrating a Volto website with another existing website, you may
need to run Volto on a "folder" inside that website, rather than
Volto directly serving the root folder.

The first step is to set an environment variable, `RAZZLE_PREFIX_PATH` to the
path "prefixed path" of your Volto. For example, if I want Volto's root to be
hosted at `http://example.com/my-prefix`, you need to start Volto with:

```
RAZZLE_PREFIX_PATH=/my-prefix yarn start
```

If you need to debug and understand how the requests are rewritten by the Volto
SSR, you can add the following environment variables to the Volto start line:

```
DEBUG_HPM=true DEBUG=superagent RAZZLE_PREFIX_PATH=/my-prefix yarn start
```

The prefix location will be used regardless of how you start Volto, in
development or production mode. When developing, though, if your backend is
something other then `http://localhost:8080`, you'll need to provide your own
solution on how to handle things.

For production setup, when hosting Volto behind a proxy HTTP server, you can
configure your rewrite rules to something like this (in this case, for Apache):

> ```apache

Reviewer 2: We didn't settle on Apache or Nginx syntax for examples on web server side implementations. Do you think that it's confusing not settling on one? Examples are mixed now all over the place. It's ok for me, but for users could be confusing. Either I'll include both, or settle on one. What do you think? @stevepiercy ?

Reviewer: I think we do not need to settle on one server. We could [display multiple examples in tabs](https://sphinx-design.readthedocs.io/en/furo-theme/tabs.html#tabbed-code-examples). If we currently have examples for more than one server, then let's use that. If we must work to come up with more than one example, then let's go with what we have now.

---

> html_meta:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
myst:
  html_meta:
```

Also indent lines 3-6 with two more spaces. The format of this changed since this PR was created.
